Title: DSI Collaborations

# DSI Collaborations 
Do you have a challenging research question or complex dataset that you think would benefit from our data science expertise? If so, contact us! We’re keen to think about ambitious projects that push the envelope - whether that’s within your discipline, across disciplines, or within the growing field of data science itself. 
We have human and computational resources at the DSI to allocate to compelling research challenges, ranging from data acquisition, visualization and analysis to improving computational efficiency for big data and/or intensive methodology. We are especially interested in interdisciplinary problems that involve researchers from across UC Davis. In the true meaning of collaboration, we expect to work with you through the entire data science pipeline and be brought in at the early stages of the project formation and continue to contribute through the data interpretation and generation of final products. To that end, we will have periodic calls for proposals, which will be announced on the News section of the DSI web page and mailing lists. But don’t hesitate to contact us if you have a brilliant idea outside of the collaboration calls.


## Current Interdisciplinary Collaborative Projects at the DSI include:

* Dr. Amber Boydstun (Department of Political Science): How does media issue framing influences public opinion? How do issue frames tend to rise, fall and evolve in the media over time? Do the often co-varying degree of public attention and prevalence of competing issue frames correlated with the influence of a specific media frame on public opinion? The DSI is providing assistance with extracting data from news articles and visualization.
* Dr. Ronald Fong (UC Davis Medical Center): What contributes to a patients' expected length of stay in a hospital? The DSI is helping to develop dynamic, predictive models from electronic medical record data to augment clinician recommendations for patient treatment and discharge plans.
* Dr. Jacob Hibel (Department of Sociology): How do local communities articulate goals, priorities and action plans for their school districts to foster increased access to special services? The DSI is helping to develop an automated workflow for processing elementary and unified school district LCAP (Local Control and Accountabliity Plans) pdfs, and to code stated policies for analysis.
* Dr. Julin Maloof (Department of Plant Biology): How are genotypes related to phenotypes, and vice versa? Being able to predict those relationships with high accuracy can improve agriculture and lead to better models of how plants adapt and grow. Recent advancements in genotyping and phenotyping methods have led to exponential increases in the volume of data from short-read RNA/DNA sequences to extensive measurements across thousands of individual plants. The DSI is helping the Maloof lab to develop a database and workflow pipeline to increase data transparency, accessibility and discovery for enhanced analytical pursuits.
* Dr. Pranav Pandit (EpiCenter for Disease Dynamics, One Health Institute): How can we predict and preemt outbreaks of zoonotic diseases, which pass from animals to humans? The DSI is helping to scrape global data on emerging zoonotic viruses, host ranges, outbreaks and emergence mechanisms to build a relational database and develop models to assess the drivers of zoonotic emergences.  
* Dr. Claudia Sánchez-Gutiérrez (Department of Spanish and Portuguese): What specific vsual and auditory input do learners receive when learning a new language, and how does it relate to language acquisition? The DSI is helping to analyze American college Spanish language textbooks and in-class lecture recordings to test the role of lexical frequency on automatic word processing across different proficiency levels. 
* Dr. Mairaj Syed (Department of Religious Studies): Authenticating hadiths (reports attributed to the Prophet Muhammad or his companions and other authorities in early Islam) is ehanced by reliable dating methods. The DSI is developing software to automate the task of collecting and collating multiple versions of the same report, as well as with web scraping and data integrity verification, to compare contents for dating and authentication.